Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has criticized the icj ruling
his office has issued a joint statement
with the foreign Ministry saying the
charges of genocide brought by South
Africa against Israel at the
international court of justice in the ha
are false outrageous and morally
repugnant he goes on to say Israel has
not and will not conduct military
actions in Rafa that create conditions
that could lead to the destruction of
the Palestinian civilian
population well Israel has banned Al
jazer so our correspondent Imran Khan's
joining us now from Jordan's capital
Aman so we heard that reaction from the
foreign Ministry and Benjamin
netanyahu's office what other reaction
is coming out of Israel this
morning well that reaction from prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu came as a
direct result of an emergency meeting
that he called with the foreign minister
Israel cat also with Benny Gans who's a
member of the war cabinet and the
government's top uh judicial adviser
that's how seriously they're taking this
icj ruling also we heard from the
Finance Minister bet theel smrd he said
the state of Israel is is at a war for
its existence in sad times in history we
couldn't stand on our own today the
Jewish people have the independence and
ability to protect their lives we also
heard from avigor Libman he's the leader
of the Israel bet betu party he says the
court decision proves that the United
Nations organizations have turned into
aiding terrorists in the world and we've
been hearing that word that term a lot
aiding the UN is aiding terrorists and
that's really likely to be a lot of the
thrust of the other reaction coming
through from Israel but while all that
reaction was coming out uh there was
another key move by the United States it
had a phone call with the Egyptian
leadership where they agreed to open the
Rafa border crossing for humanitarian
Aid that's a key part of the icj ruling
is it a a coincidence well uh if you're
listening to isra political commentators
uh what they're saying is this is
America coming to Israel's rescue this
is the first part of the of America
turning around to the icj and saying
okay the things that Israel can do it
will do remember Israel has to respond
to the icj within a month if Rafa is
open that's certainly one strong
response that Israel will have uh the so
if you're taking a look at all of this
then it seems to me that the uh
Americans are actually trying to force
the Israelis uh to at least take this
seriously but they're not going to stop
giving them weapons they're not going to
stop giving the money indeed uh the
Americans have been absolutely clear
Israel has the right to defend itself
and it has the right to go after Hamas
uh and that's something that will put
them on a collision course with the
international uh court of justice Imran
Khan in Jordan's capital am man Emon
thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
zer